---
Title: SWS101 Unit 1 
Categories: [SWS101, Journal3]
Tags: [SWS101]
---

### Topic: OWASP Top 10 Vulnerablities
----

Introduction

This room breaks each OWASP topic down and includes details on the vulnerabilities, how they occur and how you can exploit them.

1. Broken Access Control
If authentication and access restriction are not properly implemented, it's easy for attackers to take whatever they want. With broken access control flaws, unauthenticated or unauthorized users may have access to sensitive files and systems, or even user privilege settings.

Broken Access Control (IDOR:Insecure Direct Object Reference Challenge)

IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference) is a type of access control vulnerability that happens when the application or website fails to function properly to access specific resources. This means  attackers can easily manipulate identifiers to gain unauthorized access to data or functionalities that should not be available to them.

Imagine you're at a fancy apartment building with keypads to enter specific floors. If the building only checks the button you press, not who you are, that's kind of like an IDOR vulnerability.To fix this, the building needs to check both the button pressed (validate user input) and who has a key fob for that floor (authorization checks). This way, only authorized people can get to the right places.

2. Cryptographic Failures
Cryptographic Failures refers to vulnerabilities that happens from weak encryption and other cryptographic mechanisms that is used to protect data. For example, Imagine you have a Wi-Fi at your house in which the network is secured with a password. So this password acts like an encryption key, making sure it is unreadable to outsiders.

Cryptographic Failure Scenarios:

Weak Password: If your Wi-Fi password is weak it is like you keeping your spare housse key under the doormat. Someone with basic hacking tools could easily guess it and access your network. Which allows anyone to steal your personal information, spy on your internet activity or even infect your devices with malware.

Cryptographic Failures (Supporting Material 1)
It describes a security vulnerability in a web application that uses a flat-file database. Flat-File Database is the web application ehich  stores the data in a simple file-based database. It will only give problem if this database file is placed in the root directory of the website, which is given accessiblity to anyone who visits the website.

If the database is stored underneath the root directory of the website then we can download and query it with full access to the database. If the database is an SQLite database then the attacker can use a tool like sqlite3 to access and query the data.

Cryptographic Failures (Supporting Material 2)
We learned how to see hidden information in a database from a website. Now, we'll focus on the passwords stored there. We will use a website called Crackstation to crack the password.Imagine these passwords are locked away with a special key (hash). So to find the key to unlock we would rather choose picking random keys one by one. This website has a giant list of common "keys" (passwords) and tries them all on the password locks (hashes) we found. If the password is simple (like "password"), Crackstation can guess it quickly. However, for stronger passwords, Crackstation might not have the right key, and they'll stay locked.

3. Injection
Types of Injection Attacks:

SQL Injection: It is is like giving the attacker the keys to your house's database in which you store your details or information. This means attacker can steal your personal details, mess with data, or even delete things.

Command Injection: It is is like letting the attacker control your entire house. This means they could mess with your computer systems or even access other users' information.

How to Stop Injection Attacks:

There are ways to make your website more secure:

Allow List: It is like having a trusted guest list for your house. Only the things that are  approved can get in it.

Stripping Input: It is like security checking everyone who enters in some place for suspicious items and removes them if they carry suspicious things before they can do any harm.

4. Insecure Design

Insecure design means a system is vulnerable to attacks because it lacks proper safeguards for user input or data handling.

Imagine Instagram used a simple 6-digit code sent by SMS to reset passwords. An attacker could exploit a design flaw:

Limited Attempts per IP: Instagram blocked brute-forcing the code by limiting tries per phone number (IP address).
Flaw: This only stopped attackers with one phone. If they had many phone numbers (many IPs), they could try tons of codes very quickly.
Large Attack, Small Cost: Renting many phone numbers (IPs) is cheap with cloud services, making this attack possible.

5. Security Misconfiguration
When a system or software is not set up correctly, it can be vulnerable to attacks. This is called security misconfiguration.

To prevent security misconfigs and expose debugging interfaces:

Make sure that no unauthorized user has access to the data by reviewing and updating permissions on the cloud.

Keeping your software updated.

Always change the default password and user name on your systems.

Check your systems regularly for any problems and fix them as soon as they are found.

6. Vulnerable and Outdated Components
Vulnerable and outdated components refer to pieces of software or libraries within your system that have known security vulnerabilities or are not up to date with the latest security patches. Attackers often target these components because they provide easy entry points into your system.

Vulnerable and outdated components are risky because:

Security Vulnerabilities
Lack of Support
Dependency Chains
Increased Attack Surface

to avoide the risk we can do 

Regular Updates
Patch Management
Dependency Monitoring
Version Control
Security Testing
Vendor Support

7. Identification and Authentication Failures
Authentication and session management are really important for websites. Authentication is like proving your identity or who you are to get into a website or gain access. Usually, we can do this by typing in your username and password. The website checks or verify the users. If it is, the website gives your browser a special cookie. This cookie helps the website remember who you are and communicate. This is super important because websites work in a way that doesn't remember who you are otherwise.

But if someone finds a way to trick the website's authentication, it might be easier to get into other people's accounts. This could let them see things they shouldn't. Some common problems with authentication are:

Weak or Guessable Passwords: If people use passwords that are too easy to guess, it's easier for bad guys to break in by brute forciing until they get correct password.

Session Hijacking: Bad guy can steals the special cookie that proves who you are. Then, they can pretend to be you.

Tricking Users: Bad guys can trick you into doing things on a website you're already logged into, like changing your password without you knowing.

To stop these problems, 
websites need to make sure they have strong ways to prove who you are. 
They should also use extra security measures like sending codes to your phone. 

8. Software and Data Integrity Failures.
The Software and Data Integrity Failures happens when there is no proper check to make sure that  the software or data has not been changed without permission.  This can let attackers to access and spread harmful software.

Software Integrity Failures:
If you don't check if the software you're using has been changed, it could lead to security breaches. It's like trusting a driver who doesn’t check the car or vehicle first. It might get into accident if the car is in not good shape

Data Integrity Failures:
If the software doesn't check its data for integrity, it could lead to errors or security risks. If you use a banking app and the balance you see is wrong, you might lose money or get confused.

To prevent failures, 
Software should implement mechanisms to check integrity regularly.
Techniques such as digital signatures or checksums act as seals of approval to verify software or data integrity and check if the data has been altered.
Ensuring integrity minimizes unexpected surprises and security risks.

9. Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
When web applications fail to properly log and monitor user actions and suspicious activities, security logging and monitoring fails. Logging is when users record everything they do in an app. This is important because if there is a security problem, these logs can help find out what the attacker did and how dangerous it might be.

Logging and monitoring are important:

Damage from regulations.
Finding out about attacks.

What to include in logs:

HTTP status codes: These tell you what happened to each request to the server.
Time stamps help keep track of when things happen.
Usernames: Knowing which users are doing what in the application.
Knowing what parts of the application are being accessed.
Recording users' IP addresses can help identify suspicious activities from unfamiliar places.

10. Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF).
It is a type of security vulnerability that occurs when an attacker tricks a web application into making unauthorized requests without the main user knowing. 
Here's a simple breakdown of how SSRF works:

Vulnerability: the application makes requests to the SMS provider's server, including a secret API key for authentication.

Exploitation: An attacker can manipulate this parameter to point to a server they control.

Attack: This allows the attacker to intercept the request and obtain the secret API key.

Consequences: With the API key in hand, the attacker can then use the SMS service to send messages at the expense of the application owner. They could also use SSRF for more malicious purposes, such as enumerating internal networks, abusing trust relationships between servers, or even gaining remote code execution on vulnerable systems.