---
Title: SWS101 Defensive side 
Categories: [SWS101, Journal4]
Tags: [SWS101]
---

### Topic: Traffic analysis essential and Snort
----
1. Traffic analysis essential

Task 1 Introduction

The introduction shows the fundamental principles and objectives of Network Security, highlighting how Traffic Analysis helps find issues and anomalies within network data. Starting this learning journey, I knew that finishing the "Network Fundamentals" module first is important as it sets a strong base for understanding Traffic and Packet Analysis.

Task 2 Network Security and Network Data

In this task it goes deeper into the main ideas of Network Security like focusing on things such as making sure users are who they claims to be, providing them permission to access things, and making sure the network keeps working and stays dependable. The Base Network Security Control Levels show how rules for security are made, making sure to cover everything needed to keep the organization safe.

It also looks into Access Control and Threat Control which helps us understand different ways to handle how data moves and deal with the possible dangers. Also, Managed Security Services (MSS) come up as a helpful option for organizations that don't have enough resources. It also provides outside help to make security better and more efficient.

Task 3 Traffic Analysis

In this it shows the significance of Traffic Analysis in intercepting, monitoring, and analyzing network data to detect and respond to system health issues, anomalies, and threats. Going further, through the various techniques and benefits of Traffic Analysis, I appreciate its pivotal role in providing network visibility, facilitating asset tracking, and enabling proactive threat detections and response.

Engaging in this simulated traffic analysis operations offers a hands-on experience in identifying and filtering malicious IP addresses and ports, reinforcing theoretical knowledge with practical application. The challenges posed in identifying and mitigating potential threats underscore the importance of honing analytical skills and leveraging available tools and resources effectively.

2.Snort

Task 2: Interactive Material and VM
In this task it involves things like navigating to a specific folder and running a command like ./.easy.sh to execute a script. The output given by this script is "Too Easy!" which  indicates that the command that we have ran was successfully executed without encountering any errors. The main purpose of this task seems to be about familirizing users with executing commands provided by the VM.

Task 3: Introduction to IDS/IPS
This task provides us an overview of IDS and IPS concepts. This concept distinguishes NIDS and HIDS, NIPS and HIPS. It not only distinguishes between all the concepts but it also explains the different techniques such as Signature-Based, Behavior-Based, and Policy-Based detection/prevention that is used in IDS/IPS solutions.

Task 4: First Interaction with Snort
This task involves in running Snort commands which check the build number and test the configuration with specific files. The command snort -V provides us the version information, while this command like snort -T -c /etc/snort/snort.conf and snort -T -c /etc/snort/snortv2.conf test the configuration files to check for the number of rules that is loaded.

Task 5: Operation Mode 1: Sniffer Mode
In this task, it introduces Snort's sniffer mode which is similar to 'tcpdump'. In here various parameters like '-v', '-d', '-e', and '-X' are used to display different aspects of packet data. These commands demonstrate us how they uses these parameters to capture and analyze network traffic.

Task 6: Operation Mode 2: Packet Logger Mode
In this task packet logger mode are used which involves logging packet data to files. We use parameters like'`-l', '-K ASCII', and '-r' to control the logging behavior. It also demonstrates us how to analyze traffic logs that is generated by Snort and it also extracts information like source ports and packet details.

Task 7: Operation Mode 3: IDS/IPS
This task explores on  Snort's IDS/IPS modes, which detects and/or prevents intrusions based on defined rules. Various parameters like '-A', '-D', and rule configurations are demonstrated in here. The task also involves generating traffic to test Snort's detection capabilities and analyzing the output to answer questions.

Task 8: Operation Mode 4: PCAP Investigation
In this task we use PCAP investigation mode to allows us to analyze the pre-recorded network traffic that is stored in pcap files. Parameters like '-r' and '--pcap-list' are used to specify the pcap files thid needs to be analyzed. It also involves in investigating multiple pcap files with different configurations and answering questions based on the generated alerts.

Task 9: Snort Rule Structure
This task's main focus is on understanding Snort rule structure, including rule headers and its options. It explains the components of a Snort rule, such as action, protocol, source/destination IP, ports, and options like 'content', 'flags', 'dsize', and 'sameip'. Users are tasked with creating and modifying rules to filter specific network packets and answering questions based on the results.

Task 10: Snort2 Operation Logic: Points to Remember
This task provides an overview of the main components of Snort, the types of rules available, and how to configure Snort using the 'snort.conf' file. It explains the role of each component, the types of rulesets available (Community, Registered, Subscriber), and the importance of configuring Snort properly to avoid misconfiguration or lack of features.
